# Pandas_Challenge

PyCity Schools Analysis summary

PyCity School Analysis is contained of two data sets. One of the datasets shows student data with their performance scores in math and reading, their gender, grade, and school they belong to. While other datasets show school types, student size, and budget per school. From these datasets, we can learn that there are 15 schools in this district out of which 8 are Charter School and 7 are District Schools, containing a total of 39170 students and overall performance of the district schools.
For in-depth analysis of the schools in this district, here the two datasets were merged for further observation. Data was further calculated by adding new representation like per school spending budget per student, Average Math and Average Reading Scores, percentage of students passing Math and percentage of students passing in Reading, and overall percentage of students passing.
Few conclusions can be drawn from this analysis. School scores vs spending per student data frame shows that the schools with less per student capita students performed better than the schools with higher per student capita. We also learned that smaller school students performed better in Math and Reading compared to larger schools.
By analyzing dataset to calculate top performing schools, we see Top five performing schools where all Charter Schools and all Charter Schools performed better than District Schools. The data was also reflected by scores of students in Charter schools were better in both Math and Reading and overall percentage of students passing was significantly higher than the District Schools. Concluding, Charter Schools and Charter School students performed better in smaller environment with less funding compared to District Schools and District School students.
